# MCIFNet_COD

Camouflaged object detection (COD), which aims to identify the objects that conceal themselves into the surroundings, has recently drawn increasing research efforts in the field of computer vision. In practice, the success of deep learning based COD is mainly determined by two key factors, including (i) A significantly large receptive field, which provides rich context information, and (ii) An effective fusion strategy, which aggregates the rich multi-level features for accurate COD. Motivated by these observations, in this paper, we propose a novel deep learning based COD approach, which integrates the large receptive field and effective feature fusion into a unified framework. Specifically, we first extract multi-level features from a backbone network. The resulting features are then fed to the proposed dual-branch mixture convolution modules, each of which utilizes multiple asymmetric convolutional layers and two dilated convolutional layers to extract rich context features from a large receptive field. Finally, we fuse the features using specially-designed multi-level interactive fusion modules, each of which employs an attention mechanism along with feature interaction for effective feature fusion. Our method detects camouflaged objects with an effective fusion strategy, which aggregates the rich context information from a large receptive field. All of these designs meet the requirements of COD well, allowing the accurate detection of camouflaged objects. Extensive experiments on widely-used benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method is capable of accurately detecting camouflaged objects and outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
